New Extensions book for OLMv1 (#78462)
openshift/openshift-docs: extensions/index.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="extensions-overview"]
= Extensions overview
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: olmv1-about

toc::[]

:FeatureName: {olmv1}
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

Extensions enable cluster administrators to extend capabilities for users on their {product-title} cluster.

{olm-first} has been included with {product-title} 4 since its initial release. {product-title} 4.17 includes components for a next-generation iteration of {olm} as a Generally Available (GA) feature, known during this phase as _{olmv1}_. This updated framework evolves many of the concepts that have been part of previous versions of {olm} and adds new capabilities.

[id="olmv1-highlights_{context}"]
== Highlights

Administrators can explore the following highlights:

Fully declarative model that supports GitOps workflows::
{olmv1} simplifies extension management through two key APIs:
+
--

> * A new `ClusterExtension` API streamlines management of installed extensions, which includes Operators via the `registry+v1` bundle format, by consolidating user-facing APIs into a single object. This API, provided as `clusterextension.olm.operatorframework.io` by the new Operator Controller component, empowers administrators and SREs to automate processes and define desired states by using GitOps principles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A new `ClusterExtension` API streamlines management of installed extensions, which includes Operators via the `registry+v1` bundle format, by consolidating user-facing APIs into a single object. This API is provided as `clusterextension.olm.operatorframework.io` by the new Operator Controller component. Administrators and SREs can use the API to automate processes and define desired states by using GitOps principles.
```
A suggestion for later.

+
[NOTE]
====

> Earlier Technology Preview phases of {olmv1} introduced a new `Operator` API; this API is renamed `ClusterExtension` in {product-title} 4.16 to address the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Earlier Technology Preview phases of {olmv1} introduced a new `Operator` API; this API is renamed `ClusterExtension` in {product-title} 4.16 to address the following improvements:
```
Always try to add a noun after "the following", unless you're referring to "the following" in the sense of "I have a huge following on Twitter".
